Hello and welcome everyone to this
week's Stella developer meeting. We are
finally back again after Meridian and
lots of hackathons and activities. But
I'm great to it's great to be back.
And with us today we have Steve from
Open Seelin.  Open Seelin. You have
Open Seelin. Open Seelin. You have
probably heard about it. Maybe you've
even tried some of their their tooling,
but they're building some really great
tooling  that's compatible with
tooling that's compatible with
Stellar and built for Stellar. So I'm
really excited to see  a demo of the
really excited to see a demo of the
the latest tool that developed that
runs the UI builder. So Steve, yeah,
maybe just introduce yourself really
briefly and then  yeah, we can jump
briefly and then yeah, we can jump
into the demo.
>> Yeah, thank you so much. I really
appreciate it. It's nice to be here and
to  be with you all here today. So
to be with you all here today. So
again, my name is Steve. I am doing
developer relations with open zeppelin
and so I handle a lot of things anywhere
from documentation or  interacting
from documentation or interacting
with a lot of our ecosystem communities
and  you know showing you guys how
and you know showing you guys how
some of the stuff works and yeah I think
it's going to be really fun.
>> Okay, I'll share the screen here.
Maybe you can zoom in a little bit.
>> Yeah, I think I can do that. And my
screen is a little big. There we go. I
think that should be good.
>> Yeah. Does that look better? Yep.
>> Sweet. Awesome. Yeah. Well, like I said,
today we're going to be showing off
the Open Zeppelin UI builder.
Essentially, this is a tool you can use
to interact with contracts that you have
on either Stellar mainet or Stellar
testnet, but it's actually goes a little
bit further than that.  it's honestly
bit further than that. it's honestly
like a React component library, like a
UI library. And so once you've created
these forms or got the basics going, you
can actually download it as an entire
app or you can install the library as a
package and build these UI elements
yourself. And it just takes a lot of
that weight off of you when you're
trying to build interactive elements,
you know, with your contracts. So today,
I'll just go ahead and show you what it
looks like. You can visit this today.
It's live at builder.openzeppelin.com.
And you'll be landed in this, you know,
new contract UI screen. And all you have
to do is just go ahead and select the
stellar tab. And then you select
stellar test net or mainet. So I'm going
to click  test net right now. And from
to click test net right now. And from
here we just go ahead and paste in a
contract ID.  it does work with both
contract ID. it does work with both
WASM and  stellar asset contracts. The
WASM and stellar asset contracts. The
main difference is that these will pull
directly from source, but these since
they're not  you know all the API and
they're not you know all the API and
things like that are not with source
will actually pull that from GitHub
directly. But both of them work, so
you'll have no problem there. But we'll
go ahead and pull this one in. And right
away, you'll see that we go ahead and
pull in a whole bunch of stuff. First,
we pull in the contract state here. So,
this is the current state of the
contract. This is kind of like our we
call it our kitchen sync contract that
has all sorts of variables and functions
just to test a lot of different, you
know, possible interactions. And we're
pulling that directly from
stellar.expert.
Really cool. And so, from here, we can
go ahead and click next. And this is
where we start to decide or build out
our form. And the first thing you'll
want to do is select a function.  what
want to do is select a function. what
do you want to build a form for? What
piece do you want to interact with? And
there's a whole bunch of different
stuff. I'm going to select something
pretty simple, just a set text right
here. So I just hit select here. And
from here I can start to kind of
customize this. So I can say like set
greeting. I can change the description,
things like that. , from there I can
go into the fields and have like field
labels. I could do field types and you
know if we need an email or input,
there's like a whole bunch of different
types here. So I'm going to say  we'll
types here. So I'm going to say we'll
just call this greeting
and say placeholder hello. And there's a
whole lot of stuff you can do like
required fields. You can hide from the
UI, use hard-coded values. It's very
customizable. And so once we have that,
I'll go ahead and do an execution
method. So from here we can decide if we
want to allow any wallet to connect with
this and start using it or if we want to
require like specific account to
interact with it. We also have the
option to do open Zeppelin relayers. If
you haven't checked out relayers, I
would highly recommend you do. You can
check them out at
docs.openzeppelin.comrelayer.
And essentially they're managed services
kind of like a back-end server that can
relay transactions for you and can
automate certain things and you can do
things like gasless transactions. It has
full stellar  network support. So it's
full stellar network support. So it's
really really cool stuff. Would highly
recommend checking it out. But for now
we'll just stick with like a standard
account. And then from there we have a
UI kit. So you can basically choose
which wallet kit you want to be
included. So right now I have just the
built by Open Zeppelin standard one.
It's kind of like a very minimal,
nothing really fancy. So I can see my
accounts connected here. I could
disconnect.  but if you wanted to, you
disconnect. but if you wanted to, you
could also use the stellar walts kit.
And so you'll have, you know, a
different experience. You can kind of
customize that and choose which one you
like. I'll just go ahead and switch to
open zeppelins. And once we have
everything ready, , I can either just
go and hit next or at any point when I'm
in this, , you know, building phase, I
can hit preview form to view it and test
it out and then go back to building it.
So once we have it set, I could actually
go ahead and give this a shot here. So I
can say hello world or something like
that. Go ahead and do execute. And
that's just going to have me sign that
transaction.
And there we go. It's successful. And
what's really cool is that we can just
hit this refresh button here. And you
can see we have our hello world that's
been updated in our contract state,
which is really cool. And from here, we
can go ahead and export this if we want
to. This is going to export it as a like
zip folder. And once you unzip it, it's
going to be a V react project. And you
could just install the dependencies,
build, and then you basically have a app
ready to go. Now, that's only half of it
because that's like a really simple one
form piece there. If you wanted to, you
can even go to our  GitHub here, which
can even go to our GitHub here, which
is open zeppelini-builder.
And from here, you can actually download
package dependencies. You could build
these and use them in your app yourself,
the components themselves. So, there's a
lot there. And just to show you too
the some of the other things that the UI
builder has to offer is once we created
this UI, we can see it here under our
contract UIs here. And so as you build
these forms and let's say you're doing
multiple different tests or multiple
different forms, they're all stored in
your browser as local storage and you
can actually click on them here. So,
here's a different one that's a much
more complex form where I can put in an
account address. I can put an account
label, , key values. There's a whole
lot of stuff you can put here. And so,
these are all kind of stored. And if I
wanted to, I could click on the three
dots here to rename, duplicate, export.
And all of this is basically just basic
JSON data. So at any point I can
actually export all of my current UIs
into a JSON file right here. And so from
there I can import it and if I ever
needed to bring it back or something
like that, it's all dated. Just click
import. And it brings in those forms
that I just had.
And so we can just go ahead and delete
those.
And yeah, that is the basics of the UI
builder. And again, I think it works
really great if you're working with our
wizard and you're like maybe putting
together a contract, maybe you've
deployed it. From here, you can just
paste in that address, interact with it,
and test it out. Or if you wanted to
build your own web app that has those
UIs built in. Yeah, that's pretty much
it.
>> Great. if there's anyone that has
>> Great. if there's anyone that has
any questions,  please feel free to to
any questions, please feel free to to
drop them in in the comments.  I think
drop them in in the comments. I think
this was this was a really interesting
demo.  are there any limitations or
demo. are there any limitations or
anything I should know as a developer?
if what is the what what what would
be the common use case? Is it some some
someone who's  playing around with the
someone who's playing around with the
UI and they can drop it into their own
UI as a component or what is what what
what is a typical use case you would
say?
>> Yeah, I think there's actually a lot of
great use cases for it. One of them,
like you said, is if you're just playing
around and you want to test around or
try out a contract, it gives it a really
easy un interface to start using it. ,
but we've seen some other people as well
where like it could be used in a team
application like for instance to help
manage liquidity pools or build more
complex forms that might be used
internally. There's all sorts of things
I think you can do.  but I think you
I think you can do. but I think you
know  for people who are just starting
know for people who are just starting
out just wanting to build and get
experience I think it's great for that
use case personally. Yeah, I I can
definitely see it.  developers in like
definitely see it. developers in like
early in the developer journey.  if
early in the developer journey. if
you build a smart contract,  it
you build a smart contract, it
sometimes it can be a little bit
complicated if you're completely new to
Stellar to use the CLI to invoke the
contract and get all the the formatting
correct in in the in the invoke command.
definitely makes it a lot easier to be
able to quickly spin up a UI and
interact with your smart contract and
test things out. But but you said it's
built in it was built in React.
>> Yeah. Yep. It's all basic React UI
components. I think we use Shad CN  UI
components. I think we use Shad CN UI
components under the hood as well.  so
components under the hood as well. so
I think we have a lot of visions too
about what that might look like in the
future and how you might be able to
import them into your existing app or
something like that. They are packages
that you can install to an existing
React app and just start building right
away if you'd like to, which is really
cool.
>> Yeah, it it definitely makes it easy to
drop it into to if if you're building a
React application, then drop in the the
forms to interact with the with the
smart contracts.
>> I think personally, I think we'll see a
lot of use of this in hackathons where
you have limited time to accomplish
something.  it's it's a very it's it
something. it's it's a very it's it
looks very easy. I I had a a chance to
play with it yesterday and it it was
just in a matter of minutes I had a
front end for my for my  my smart
front end for my for my my smart
contract. So
>> really really great experience. I see we
have a question here.
I see it as a good starting point for
building deps for your customers to
interact with your C contracts. Yeah,
absolutely.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.
I I even see it. I even see it
sometimes.  I I do a I in my role as a
sometimes. I I do a I in my role as a
dev as as you know from from yourself,
we we get to play around with a lot of
new stuff.
>> sure do.
>> And and a lot of time just for the
>> And and a lot of time just for the
convenience of it. I think  I think
convenience of it. I think I think
this this could be a great way for me to
to test out some new features in in
smart contracts and when we try to roll
out when we roll out something new. And
I I like to be testing things early on,
but I don't necessarily want to build a
whole DAP around it. So So I think  I
whole DAP around it. So So I think I
think this this has some some great
opportunities for both people playing
around who's experimenting, but also
building the DAPs because they can drop
in the their the components in in their
in their Next.js or their React
application.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
then there's a question does it
support the new release of React which
includes a compiler demonstrated a few
days ago at the React Summit.
Let me see. I think as of right now
we might be using React 19. So probably
close. I'd have to double check if we
can actually get to using React
compiler. But  yeah, I'd be interested
compiler. But yeah, I'd be interested
to try and see if that does work. I know
that's still pretty new.
>> Yeah. Great. Any other questions?
In the meanwhile, I will say you
mentioned relay relay.  I think we are
mentioned relay relay. I think we are
going to do a presentation about that
in about two weeks. I think it's
>> Oh, excellent.
>> I don't think it's on next Thursday, but
I think it's in two weeks if I remember
correctly. But we are definitely going
to do a a
developer meeting around the relay and
have a demonstration of that. So, I'm
looking forward to that as well.
>> Yeah, don't miss that. That's that stuff
is pretty sweet, very helpful.
>> Okay, can you maybe just talk a little
bit about what Relay is?
>> Yeah, it's essentially like a it's
>> Yeah, it's essentially like a it's
like a Rust backend. So, it's written in
Rust. It's very nice, fast, it's
efficient, and  it's very easy to set
efficient, and it's very easy to set
up in my opinion.  you basically clone
up in my opinion. you basically clone
the repo.  there's like a build
the repo. there's like a build
command or a setup command you run and
it creates like a single binary which
you can run you know in most
environments and it'll basically create
like a  API interface for you know
like a API interface for you know
smart contract interactions. So you can
basically set up  accounts or re
basically set up accounts or re
they're called relayers and they can
maybe have  different addresses
maybe have different addresses
different permissions different you can
load them up with different balances
etc. And so from there you can kind of
make permissioned or spec particularly
granted access for part particular tasks
you know  and so there's a lot you can
you know and so there's a lot you can
do with it. I think a lot of the people
have used them for like gasless
transactions. You can send an API
request asking to do something. The
relayer will take care of it and then
you know on your actual user interface
app you never had to have a user pay for
gas or things like that. , but yeah,
it can really build a lot of that. And I
think there's also when you use them
with monitors, that's the other half of
the equation there. , monitors allow
you to listen to smart contract events
or functions or anything happening. You
they're very flexible and the really
power comes in is like you can monitor
one thing on your contract and then as a
reaction use something on your relayer.
, you know, so that could be something
like, , if somebody withdraws way too
much out of a contract or is an alarming
amount of money, you can maybe pause the
contract or you can stop certain things,
you can react to things. It's kind of
built as both a security setup as well
as, you know, just a ease of life setup
to, you know, for building apps and
stuff.
>> Okay, great. It doesn't seem like we
have  we have any more questions. So,
have we have any more questions. So,
I would just thank you for for the demo
for the demo. It was super interesting
to see how easy it is to set up a front
end and create front-end components for
for a smart contract.
>> I It's kind of tooling where it's it's
it's it's making life a lot easier.
You get something up and running
quicker. And one of the things that I
always love about using tooling like
this is that it's gone through a lot of
testing. It's gone typically it's gone
through some auditing as well. So, so
you get a really really solid
starting point for for your project
instead of trying to build everything
yourself. So, thank you so much and
yeah, we'll be back next week with with
another great demo.  and just a
another great demo. and just a
reminder for everyone joining here  at
reminder for everyone joining here at
1:30 p.m.  Pacific, we have a protocol
1:30 p.m. Pacific, we have a protocol
meeting on Discord. So, see you all
there and thank you again, Steve.
>> Thank you, Kristen. Yeah, it's great to
be here.
>> See you.
>> Bye.